# Extended Attributes
EAs, which allow arbitrary metadata, in the form of name-value pairs, to be associated with file i-nodes.

## Overview

### EA namespaces
Four values are supported for *namespace*:
- *User* EAs may be manipulated by unprivileged processes, subject to file permission checks. In order to associate *user* EAs with a file on arbitrary file systems, the underlying file system must be mounted with the *user_xattr* option.
- *Trusted* EAs are like *user* EAs  in that they can be manipulated by user processes. The diff is that *Trusted* is that a process must be privileged(CAP_SYS_ADMIN) in order to manipulate *trusted* EAs.
- *System* EAs are used by the kernel to associate system objects within a file. Currently, the only supported object type is an access control list.
- *Security* EAs are used to store file security labels for operating system security modules, and to associate capabilities with executable files.

### Creating and viewing EAs from the shell
We can use *setfattr(1)* and *getfatrr(1)* to set and view the EAs on a file.
> By default, *getfattr* lists only the values of *user* EAs.

> find the examples online


## Extended Attribute implementation Details

### Restrictions on *user* extended attributes
It is only possible to place *user* EAs on files and directories. Furthermore, it is not possible for an unprivileged process to place a *user* EA on a directory owned by another user if the sticky bit is set on the pathnamedirectory.


### Implementation limits
- The length of an EA name is limited to 255 characters.
- An EA value is limited to 64kB.

## System Calls for Manipulating Extended Attributes

### Creating and Modifying EAs
```c
#include <sys/xattr.h>

int setxattr(const char *pathname, const char *name, const void *value, size_t size, int flags);
int lsetxattr(const char *pathname, const char *name, const void *value, size_t size, int flags);
int fsetxattr(int fd, const char *name, const void *value, size_t size, int flags);
// All return 0 on success, or -1 on error
```

The differences are:
- `setxattr()` identifies a file by *pathname*, and dereferences the filename if it is a symbolic link.
- `lsetxattr()` does not dereference a symbolic link.
- `fsetxattr()` identifies a file with fd.

*flags* can be set to these values below:
- **XATTR_CREATE**: Fail (EEXIST) if an EA with the given *name* already exists.
- **XATTR_REPLACE**: Fail (ENODATA) if an EA with the given name doesn't already exist.

### Retrieving the value of an EA
The *getxattr()*, *lgetxattr()*, and *fgetxattr()* are almost the same with above.

### Removing an EA
```c
#include <sys/xattr.h>

int removexattr(const char *pathname, const char *name);
int lremovexattr(const char *pathname, const char *name);
int fremovexattr(int fd, const char *name);
// All return 0 on success, or -1 on error
```

### Retrieving the names of all EAs associated with a file
```c
#include <sys/xattr.h>

ssize_t listxattr(const char *pathname, char *list, size_t size);
ssize_t llistxattr(const char *pathname, char *list, size_t size);
ssize_t flistxattr(const char *pathname, char *list, size_t size);
// All return number of bytes copied into list on success, or -1 on error
```
