# System Limits and Options
The C programming language standards and SUSv3 provide two principal avenues for an application to obtain such information:
- Some limits and options can be determined at compile time. E.g. the maximum value of an *int*.
- *sysconf()*, *pathconf()*, *fpathconf()*

## System Limits
SUSv3 requires that all implementation support a *minimum value*  for the limit. They are constant in <limits.h> with a name prefixed by the string \__POSIX_XXX_MAX.

> The constants are the minimum upper value of each limit.

Sometimes we want to exceed the limits. For this reason, it is usually preferable to determine the limit on a particular system using <limits.h>, *sysconf()*, *pathconf()*. Each limit has the same name with in <limits.h>, but without a *POSIX* prefix.

SUSv3 divides the limits into three categories:
- runtime invariant values
- pathname variable values
- runtime increasable value

### Runtime invariant values (possibly indeterminate)
A runtime invariant value is a limit whose value, if defined in <limits.h>, is fixed for the implementation. However, the value may be indeterminate, and hence omitted from <limits.h>. In this case, an application can use *sysconf()* to determine the value at run time.

### Pathname variable values
A limit can vary depending on the pathname, an application can determine its value using *pathconf()*, or *fpathconf()*.

```c
lim = pathconf(directory_path, _PC_NAME_MAX);
```

### Runtime increasable values
A runtime increasable value is a limit that has a fixed minimum value for a particular implementation, and all systems running the implementation will provide at least this minimum value.